---
title: "Characters of light-sheet fluorescence microscope and its application. (In Chinese)"
collection: publications
category: manuscripts
permalink: /publication/2021CurrBiotech
citation: '<b>Chen X</b>, Li S#, Chen W, Meng Q. (2021). &quot;Characters of light-sheet fluorescence microscope and its application.&quot; <i>Shengwu Jishu Jinzhan 生物技术进展</i>. <b>11</b> 136-147.'
excerpt: 'Conventional fluorescence microscopes are unable to meet the demand for prolonged observation of live samples with some certain fluorescence signal molecules due to their high phototoxicity, phtodamage, etc. As a novel fluorescence microscope, light sheet fluorescence microscope(LSFM) has outstanding characteristics which are different from laser scanning confocal microscope, such as the low phototoxicity, low photobleaching, low photodamage and the high spatiotemporal resolution due to its special orthogonal optical path design and efficient signal acquisition device, thus it can continuously record cells and large-scale biological tissue samples, especially for the live samples. Based on this, the imaging principle, imaging advantages, improvement and optimization process of imaging effect of LSFM and its research achievements obtained in the field of life science were summarized, focusing on the related applications in recent three years, and some representative research contents in the fields of neurobiology, developmental biology, animal cell biology and plant science were briefly introduced. Finally, the advantages and disadvantages of LSFM were summarized, and its potential applications in optogenetics and multi-group studies were prospected,  in order to provide researchers with systematic basic knowledge, latest research applications and potential applications in the future, and provide reference for researchers.'
date: 2021-03-31
venue: 'Shengwu Jishu Jinzhan 生物技术进展'
paperurl: 'http://xxxxxuan.github.io/files/2021CurrBiotech.pdf'
---

The contents above will be part of a list of publications, if the user clicks the link for the publication than the contents of section will be rendered as a full page, allowing you to provide more information about the paper for the reader. When publications are displayed as a single page, the contents of the above "citation" field will automatically be included below this section in a smaller font.
